README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./assets/banner.png">
</p>

## Overview

Novus streamlines managing of numerous `localhost` services by providing a simple way to define regular domain names instead. It comes with built-in HTTPS support so all domains are secure by default.

In the background it’s just good old **Nginx** acting as a proxy and **DNSMasq** for defining custom domain resolvers. No more `/etc/hosts` manipulation. SSL certificates are automatically managed and renewed for you by **mkcert**.

All you have to do is **map your [localhost](http://localhost) URLs to the DNS domains**. The rest is up to Novus and you can enjoy a seamless production-like experience on your machine 💯.

<p align="center">
  <img src="./assets/novus.gif">
</p>

## Installing

Installing Novus is very simple and can be done in two steps.

```bash
$ brew tap jozefcipa/novus
$ brew install novus
```

You can verify Novus has been install by running

```bash
$ novus -v
```

## Usage

To start using Novus, run `novus init`.

It creates a `novus.yml` configuration file that you can open in your editor and define your domains mapping.

**Example configuration:**

```yaml
appName: my-app
routes:
  - domain: my-frontend.test
    upstream: http://localhost:3000
  - domain: my-api.test
    upstream: http://localhost:4000
```

Once you’re done, just call `novus serve` and you can start using nice HTTPs domains locally.

**Note:** It will ask for your password as it performs some `sudo` calls (for managing DNS resolvers).

## Commands

Here is the list of all available commands.<br/>
You can run them by calling `novus [command]`

| Command | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| init | Initializes the Novus proxy. Install the necessary binaries and creates a configuration file (novus.yml) |
| serve | Reads the configuration file, updates DNS, creates SSL certificates and registers routes. |
| status | Shows Novus status and all registered apps. |
| stop | Stops Novus routing. |
| start | Starts Novus routing. |
| pause&nbsp;[app] | Pauses routing of a specific app. (Needed if there are multiple apps defined with the conflicting domains) |
| resume&nbsp;[app] | Starts routing the paused app again. |
| remove&nbsp;[app] | Removes app configuration from Novus and stops routing. |

## Notes

💡 **Prefer** `.test` or another postfix that is not a valid TLD domain.

❌  **Do not use** `.local` domain as it might be [used by MacOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/101471).

❌  **Do not use** `.dev` domain either, this is now a valid TLD domain.

## Updates
There is currently **no stable** version of Novus, so whenever a new version is publised, there might be BREAKING CHANGES!

Therefore, please remove the old Novus binary before installing a new version.

```bash
# Uninstall the old version
$ novus remove [app] # Run for all your apps
$ brew uninstall novus
$ brew untap jozefcipa/novus

# Install a new version
$ brew tap jozefcipa/novus
$ brew install novus
```

## **License**

Novus is released under the [MIT license](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

chore(readme): update docs about inline route configuration

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./assets/banner.png">
</p>

## Overview

Novus streamlines managing of numerous `localhost` services by providing a simple way to define regular domain names instead. It comes with built-in HTTPS support so all domains are secure by default.

In the background it’s just good old **Nginx** acting as a proxy and **DNSMasq** for defining custom domain resolvers. No more `/etc/hosts` manipulation. SSL certificates are automatically managed and renewed for you by **mkcert**.

All you have to do is **map your [localhost](http://localhost) URLs to the DNS domains**. The rest is up to Novus and you can enjoy a seamless production-like experience on your machine 💯.

<p align="center">
  <img src="./assets/novus.gif">
</p>

## Installing

Installing Novus is very simple and can be done in two steps.

```bash
$ brew tap jozefcipa/novus
$ brew install novus
```

You can verify Novus has been install by running

```bash
$ novus -v
```

## Usage

To start using Novus, run `novus init`.

It creates a `novus.yml` configuration file that you can open in your editor and define your domains mapping.

**Example configuration:**

```yaml
appName: my-app
routes:
  - domain: my-frontend.test
    upstream: http://localhost:3000
  - domain: my-api.test
    upstream: http://localhost:4000
```

Once you’re done, just call `novus serve` and you can start using nice HTTPs domains locally.

**Note:** It will ask for your password as it performs some `sudo` calls (for managing DNS resolvers).

## Commands

Here is the list of all available commands.<br/>
You can run them by calling `novus [command]`

| Command | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `init` | Initializes the Novus proxy. Installs the necessary binaries and creates a configuration file (`novus.yml`) |
| `serve [domain?] [upstream?]`  | Reads the configuration file, updates DNS, creates SSL certificates and registers routes. <br><br>**Note:** You can also quickly define one route by providing the configuration directly in the CLI by calling e.g. `novus serve my-api.test http://localhost:3000` |
| `status` | Shows Novus status and all registered apps. |
| `stop` | Disables routing by stopping Nginx and DNSMasq |
| `start` | Starts routing by starting Nginx and DNSMasq |
| `pause [app]` | Pauses routing of a specific app. <br><br> Needed if there are multiple apps defined with conflicting domains |
| `resume [app]` | Starts routing the paused app again. |
| `remove [app]` | Removes an app configuration from Novus and stops routing. |

## Notes

💡 **Prefer** `.test` or another postfix that is not a valid TLD domain.

❌  **Do not use** `.local` domain as it might be [used by MacOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/101471).

❌  **Do not use** `.dev` domain either, this is now a valid TLD domain.

## Updates
There is currently **no stable** version of Novus, so whenever a new version is published, there might be BREAKING CHANGES!

Therefore, please remove the old Novus binary before installing a new version.

```bash
# Uninstall the old version
$ novus remove [app] # Run for all your apps
$ brew uninstall novus
$ brew untap jozefcipa/novus

# Install a new version
$ brew tap jozefcipa/novus
$ brew install novus
```

## **License**

Novus is released under the [MIT license](./LICENSE).
